This project is a collection of notebooks that walk through my process in creating a data visualization that allows me to scope out the food scene in Bellevue. The technologies used in this are Python, Jupyter Notebooks, Google Places API (New), and Tableau. The libraries that were used in this are requests, pandas, geopy, csv, ast, re, json, PyTorch, and transformers. I used the pre-trained DeBERTa-v3 model from here: https://huggingface.co/yangheng/deberta-v3-base-absa-v1.1. The data visualization itself can be found on Tableau Public, here: https://public.tableau.com/app/profile/andy.huynh6194/viz/Belleviz/Dashboard1?publish=yes

The inspiration for this project stems from a Data Visualization class I took at Georgia Tech. In that class, my group members and I created a similar data visualization project using data from the Yelp Open Dataset to analyze restaurant review trends across the US and some of Canada. I took what I learned from that project and focused it on Bellevue, where I just moved to recently. My motivation in creating this project is that, wherever I live, I want to know where the good restaurants are. Instead of manually parsing through restaurants and their reviews, I wanted to create a tool that would summarize and show me the good spots that I might enjoy.

The data that I collected was all through the free version of the Google Places API (New) and is not included in this repository. However, I have included all the steps that I took in order to gather that data in the datacollection.ipynb along with some information about the limitations I faced. The biggest limitation for this project for me was that, because I used the free tier of the Google Places API only, I was limited to a measly five reviews per restaurant. This severely limits the quality of my analysis since the sample size is so small for each restaurant.

If I were to expand on this project in the future, I would like to gather more reviews per restaurant and do more fine-tuning for the sentiment analysis model that I used.
